README.md, before:

# doomgeneric
The purpose of doomgeneric is to make porting Doom easier.
Of course Doom is already portable but with doomgeneric it is possible with just a few functions.

To try it you will need a WAD file (game data). If you don't own the game, shareware version is freely available (doom1.wad).

# porting
Create a file named doomgeneric_yourplatform.c and just implement these functions to suit your platform.
* DG_Init
* DG_DrawFrame
* DG_SleepMs
* DG_GetTicksMs
* DG_GetKey

|Functions            |Description|
|---------------------|-----------|
|DG_Init              |Initialize your platfrom (create window, framebuffer, etc...).
|DG_DrawFrame         |Frame is ready in DG_ScreenBuffer. Copy it to your platform's screen.
|DG_SleepMs           |Sleep in milliseconds.
|DG_GetTicksMs        |The ticks passed since launch in milliseconds.
|DG_GetKey            |Provide keyboard events.
|DG_SetWindowTitle    |Not required. This is for setting the window title as Doom sets this from WAD file.

### main loop
At start, call doomgeneric_Create().

In a loop, call doomgeneric_Tick().

In simplest form:
```
int main(int argc, char **argv)
{
    doomgeneric_Create(argc, argv);

    while (1)
    {
        doomgeneric_Tick();
    }
    
    return 0;
}
```

# sound
Sound is much harder to implement! If you need sound, take a look at SDL port. It fully supports sound and music! Where to start? Define FEATURE_SOUND, assign DG_sound_module and DG_music_module.

# platforms
Ported platforms include Windows, X11, SDL, emscripten. Just look at (doomgeneric_win.c, doomgeneric_xlib.c, doomgeneric_sdl.c).
Makefiles provided for each platform.

## emscripten
You can try it directly here:
https://ozkl.github.io/doomgeneric/

emscripten port is based on SDL port, so it supports sound and music! For music, timidity backend is used.

## Windows
![Windows](screenshots/windows.png)

## X11 - Ubuntu
![Ubuntu](screenshots/ubuntu.png)

## X11 - FreeBSD
![FreeBSD](screenshots/freebsd.png)

## SDL
![SDL](screenshots/sdl.png)

Commit message:

Updated instruction and gitignore
Added instructions on building and running the code to the readme,
and updated .gitignore to not commit any .wad files

README.md, after:

# UVSD DOOM README

### Build Code
```
cd doomgeneric/
make
```

### Download doom shareware
```
wget https://distro.ibiblio.org/slitaz/sources/packages/d/doom1.wad
```

### Run DOOM
```
./doomgeneric
```

If you put your iwad file somewhere else you can specify it with the -iwad command
```
./doomgeneric -iwad <Path to your iwad file>
```


# doomgeneric
The purpose of doomgeneric is to make porting Doom easier.
Of course Doom is already portable but with doomgeneric it is possible with just a few functions.

To try it you will need a WAD file (game data). If you don't own the game, shareware version is freely available (doom1.wad).

# porting
Create a file named doomgeneric_yourplatform.c and just implement these functions to suit your platform.
* DG_Init
* DG_DrawFrame
* DG_SleepMs
* DG_GetTicksMs
* DG_GetKey

|Functions            |Description|
|---------------------|-----------|
|DG_Init              |Initialize your platfrom (create window, framebuffer, etc...).
|DG_DrawFrame         |Frame is ready in DG_ScreenBuffer. Copy it to your platform's screen.
|DG_SleepMs           |Sleep in milliseconds.
|DG_GetTicksMs        |The ticks passed since launch in milliseconds.
|DG_GetKey            |Provide keyboard events.
|DG_SetWindowTitle    |Not required. This is for setting the window title as Doom sets this from WAD file.

### main loop
At start, call doomgeneric_Create().

In a loop, call doomgeneric_Tick().

In simplest form:
```
int main(int argc, char **argv)
{
    doomgeneric_Create(argc, argv);

    while (1)
    {
        doomgeneric_Tick();
    }
    
    return 0;
}
```

# sound
Sound is much harder to implement! If you need sound, take a look at SDL port. It fully supports sound and music! Where to start? Define FEATURE_SOUND, assign DG_sound_module and DG_music_module.

# platforms
Ported platforms include Windows, X11, SDL, emscripten. Just look at (doomgeneric_win.c, doomgeneric_xlib.c, doomgeneric_sdl.c).
Makefiles provided for each platform.

## emscripten
You can try it directly here:
https://ozkl.github.io/doomgeneric/

emscripten port is based on SDL port, so it supports sound and music! For music, timidity backend is used.

## Windows
![Windows](screenshots/windows.png)

## X11 - Ubuntu
![Ubuntu](screenshots/ubuntu.png)

## X11 - FreeBSD
![FreeBSD](screenshots/freebsd.png)

## SDL
![SDL](screenshots/sdl.png)
